Some suggestions for modifications and comments to the first three chapter (#1)
Andros-Spica/rub-archwiss_040468-data-management: session-rdm.qmd

  * Documentation of data provenance.
  * Conformance to community standards.

> These principles aim to enhance the usefulness of digital assets by ensuring they can be easily located, understood, and utilized by others [@lamprecht_towards_2020; @wilkinson_fair_2016]. Applying FAIR principles in archaeology involves creating well-documented, datasets that other researchers can readily use and are ideally made available in open access [@hiebel_fair_2021;@lien-talks_how_2024;@nicholson_will_2023].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These principles aim to enhance the usefulness of digital assets by ensuring they can be easily located, understood, and utilized by others [@lamprecht_towards_2020; @wilkinson_fair_2016]. Applying FAIR principles in archaeology involves creating well-documented, datasets that other researchers can readily access openly or through transparent authentication procedures, in case of sensitive data [@hiebel_fair_2021;@lien-talks_how_2024;@nicholson_will_2023].
```

> <!-- COMMENT

Reviewer: addressed by changes above, COMMENT to be erased

Reviewer: Concrete examples of sensitive data can be introduced while dealing directly with archaeological datasets

The FAIR principles do not require open access, on the contrary (see principle A2)! And there is good reason in archaeology to not have everything in open access. Readily to my mind comes protection from looters by not making site coordinates open access. 
-->

![A summary breakdown of the FAIR data principles (reproduction from @lien-talks_how_2024, Figure 1)](https://storage.googleapis.com/jnl-up-j-jcaa-files/journals/1/articles/154/665701dcda4a5.png)

> <!-- COMMENT

Reviewer: The link introduced is simply to display a figure of the referenced paper directly, without having us storing a copy. The choice for Google Services is taken by the journal (JCAA), but in any case displaying the image should not prompt readers with the cookies banner.

> These principles aim to protect Indigenous rights to self-determination and ensure data contributes positively to community development and innovation. Applying the CARE principles in archaeological research will strongly depend on whether and how researchers identify and define the *indigenous peoples* associated with material culture research.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These principles aim to protect Indigenous rights to self-determination and ensure data contributes positively to community development and innovation. Researchers involved in archaeology should remain sensitive to the concerns raised by CARE, especially when conceptualising a new research project and later, when publishing data and research outputs. 

Applying the CARE principles in archaeological research will strongly depend on whether an indigenous group (self-identified and/or legally recognised) is directly involved as researchers or research enablers (e.g., creators of material culture, subjects to surveys and interviews, consulting experts, etc). In countries with a recent colonial past, this criteria tends to be clear for all parts involved. However, the concept of indigenous is hardly consensual when speaking about cultural groups not self-identified in oposition to a colonising cultural group. Initiatives, such as the Traditional Knowledge Labels by [Local Contexts](https://localcontexts.org/), continue to be developed to help to clarify this and other points.
```

> <!-- COMMENT

Reviewer: addressed by changes above, COMMENT to be erased
